README.md, before:

[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes/actions/workflows/pytest.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes/actions/workflows/pylint.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes/actions/workflows/publish.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pynxtools-mpes)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/pynxtools-mpes)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pynxtools-mpes)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/FAIRmat-NFDI/mpes/badge.svg?branch=main&kill_cache=1)](https://coveralls.io/github/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes?branch=main)

# A reader for MPES data

## Installation

It is recommended to use python 3.11 with a dedicated virtual environment for this package.
Learn how to manage [python versions](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and
[virtual environments](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/).

This package is a reader plugin for [`pynxtools`](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools) and thus should be installed together with `pynxtools`:


```shell
pip install pynxtools[mpes]
```

for the latest development version.

## Docs
Extensive documentation of this pynxtools plugin is available [here](https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/pynxtools-mpes/). You can find information about getting started, how-to guides, the supported file formats, how to get involved, and much more there.

## Contact person in FAIRmat for this reader
Lukas Pielsticker, Laurenz Rettig, [the FAIRmat team](https://www.fair-di.eu/fairmat/about-fairmat/team-fairmat)

Commit message:

follow cookiecutter template (#65)
Co-authored-by: Laurenz Rettig <53396064+rettigl@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Lukas Pielsticker <you@example.com>
Co-authored-by: lukaspie <lukaspie@github.com>

README.md, after:

[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes/actions/workflows/pytest.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes/actions/workflows/pylint.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes/actions/workflows/publish.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pynxtools-mpes)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/pynxtools-mpes)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pynxtools-mpes)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/FAIRmat-NFDI/mpes/badge.svg?branch=main&kill_cache=1)](https://coveralls.io/github/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-mpes?branch=main)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/759916501.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16684290)

# `pynxtools-mpes`: A `pynxtools` reader for MPES data

`pynxtools-mpes`-mpes is a `pynxtools` reader plugin for multidimensional photoelectron spectroscopy (MPES) data.

This `pynxtools` plugin was generated with [`cookiecutter`](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter) using the [`pynxtools-plugin-template`](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-plugin-template) template.

## Installation

It is recommended to use python 3.12 with a dedicated virtual environment for this package. Learn how to manage [python versions](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and [virtual environments](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/).

This package is a reader plugin for [`pynxtools`](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools) and can be installed together with `pynxtools`:

```shell
uv pip install pynxtools[mpes]
```

for the latest released version.

## Docs

More information about this pynxtools plugin is available in the [documentation](https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/pynxtools-mpes/). You will find information about getting started, how-to guides, the supported file formats, how to get involved, and much more there.

## Contact person in FAIRmat for this reader

Lukas Pielsticker, Laurenz Rettig, [the FAIRmat team](https://www.fair-di.eu/fairmat/about-fairmat/team-fairmat)

## How to cite this work

Dobener, F., Rettig, L., Pielsticker, L., Pincelli, T., Abeer, A., Mozumder, R., & Brockhauser, S. (2025). pynxtools-mpes: A pynxtools reader plugin for multidimensional photoemission spectroscopy (MPES) data. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16684729
